I've updated the cluster overview page to hopefully make it a little … (#2650)
buildkite/docs: pages/clusters/overview.md

# Clusters overview

>📘 Clusters
> Clusters will be enabled for all organizations on February 26 2024.

Clusters is a Buildkite feature used to manage and organize agents and queues, which:

- allows teams to self-manage their Buildkite agent pools,
- allows admins to create isolated sets of agents and pipelines within the one Buildkite organization,
- helps make agents and queues more discoverable across your organization, and
- provides easily accessible queue metrics.

The following diagram shows the architecture with cluster enabled.

<%= image "clusters-architecture.png", alt: "Diagram showing existing architecture and architecture with clusters" %>

Clusters encapsulate groups of agents and pipelines, enabling the following:

> - Clusters are viewable to your entire organization, allowing engineers to better understand the agents and queues available for their pipelines.

Reviewer: To reduce ambiguity, I generally like to clarify what term/type of entity - e.g. 'organization' is being referred to in a new paragraph of text, or near the top of a list, where this term might be used throughout the other list items (without its clarification).

Hence, my suggestion of adding 'Buildkite' before 'organization'...

```suggestion
- Clusters are viewable to your entire Buildkite organization, allowing engineers to better understand the agents and queues available for their pipelines.
```

> - Individual users or teams can maintain their own clusters. Cluster maintainers can manage queues and agent tokens and add and remove pipelines.

Reviewer: Add [serial comma](https://github.com/buildkite/docs/blob/main/styleguides/writing-style.md#commas):

```suggestion
- Individual users or teams can maintain their own clusters. Cluster maintainers can manage queues and agent tokens, and add and remove pipelines.
```

- Pipelines can be assigned to a cluster, ensuring their builds run only on the agents connected to this cluster. These pipelines can also trigger builds only on other pipelines in the same cluster.

## Queue metrics

Clusters provides additional, easy to access queue metrics that are available only for queues within a cluster.
Learn more in [Cluster queue metrics](/docs/pipelines/cluster-queue-metrics).

## Accessing clusters and agents

> The release of clusters will change navigating to your agents on the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release of clusters changes how your agents are accessed through the Buildkite UI.
```

> If you only have one Cluster with one Queue selecting _Agents_ in the global navigation will take you to your single queue.

Reviewer: Is it worthwhile weaving into the narrative somewhere around here that when a new Buildkite org is created, the following is also created:

- 1 default cluster called **Default cluster**
- 1 default queue called **default-queue**
- 1 initial agent token called **Initial agent token**

?

Reviewer: Consider revising with these suggestions post clusters GA because until then, this behaviour won't be observed.

> If you have multiple clusters, or _Unclustered_ pipelines and agents, selecting _Agents_ in the global navigation will take you to the Clusters page.
> Once in the clusters page you can navigate to your agents by selecting the cluster the agents are part of, or _Unclustered_ for agents that were not created as part of a cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple clusters, or unclustered pipelines and agents, selecting _Agents_ in the global navigation will take you to the _Agent Clusters_ page. Once on this page, you can navigate to your agents by selecting the cluster the agents are part of, or _Unclustered_ for agents that were not created as part of a cluster.
```

Reviewer: Assuming italics is used to emphasise here, is "unclustered pipelines" or "unclustered" (proceeding the normal-formatted word "pipelines") a term we want to call out here?

> ## Enabling clusters before the release date

Reviewer: Is this section of text something we'll need to remove once clusters goes GA?

Reviewer: The 'enable clusters' feature within pipeline settings will disappear post clusters GA release.

# Clusters overview

>📘 Clusters
> Clusters will be enabled for all organizations on February 26 2024.

> Clusters are a new way of managing your Buildkite agents. They allow teams to self-manage their agent pools, let admins create isolated sets of agents and pipelines within the one Buildkite organization, help to make agents and queues more discoverable across your organization, and provide easily accessible queue metrics.

Reviewer: Suggest streamling this sentence a tad. Since clusters has been out for a while, I'd recommend removing the first sentence as the real value statements start from the 2nd sentence.

```suggestion
Clusters allow teams to self-manage their Buildkite agent pools, admins to create isolated sets of agents and pipelines within the one Buildkite organization, helps make agents and queues more discoverable across your organization, and provides easily accessible queue metrics.
```

* Individual users or teams can maintain their own clusters. Cluster maintainers can manage queues and agent tokens and add and remove pipelines.
* Pipelines can be assigned to a cluster, ensuring their builds run only on the agents connected to this cluster. These pipelines can also trigger builds only on other pipelines in the same cluster.

## Queue metrics

Clusters provides additional, easy to access queue metrics that are available only for queues within a cluster.

> See [Cluster queue metrics](../../docs/pipelines/cluster-queue-metrics) for more information.

Reviewer: When creating relative links, there's no need to traverse up directory structures to reach the page file. In fact, these are not file references (which have underscores separating their words); they're virtual 'relative' page references instead, and are all fixed from `/doc`.

```suggestion
See [Cluster queue metrics](/docs/pipelines/cluster-queue-metrics) for more information.
```

For more information about linking, I've updated the style guide here: https://github.com/buildkite/docs/blob/main/styleguides/markdown-syntax-style.md#internal-links-to-other-pages

> 

Reviewer: Keep this section after the clusters GA release, and reword to indicate that this is only relevant (i.e. unclustered whatchimees) for people who created their Buildkite orgs prior to clusters GA.

Enabling clusters will not impact any of your existing agents or pipelines, nor will you require any workflow-breaking changes for you to try clusters.

> Once clusters is enabled, when selecting _Agents_ in the global navigation your will be shown all your clusters as well as _Unclustered_ agents and pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once clusters is enabled, when selecting _Agents_ in the global navigation shows all your available clusters, as well as any _Unclustered_ agents and pipelines.
```

Any agents or pipelines not associated with a cluster are called _unclustered_. To view and manage your unclustered agents, agent tokens, and pipelines, select _Unclustered_.

> ## Clusters and Queues best practice

Reviewer: I know we were talking about this yesterday, but what do you think about the idea of moving some of this content into the new 'Managing queues in a cluster' (to be created as part of https://github.com/buildkite/docs/pull/2642) on the 'Managing clusters' page of the docs?

Reviewer: As discussed with Liam, will/may rework this into #2642
